F. No. J-11011/10/2012- IA II (I) 
Government of India 
Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change 
(I.A. Division) 
Indira Paryavaran Bhawan 
Aliganj, Jorbagh Road, 
New Delhi -110003 
 
E-mail : lk.bokolia@nic.in  
Telefax : 011: 2469 5401 
Dated 30th January, 2015 
To,                    
            Shri Jasvanthbhai A. Patel (Director) 
 
M/s Hi –Tech Board Pvt. Ltd.  
 
202, Vaibhav Apartment, Ambedkar Chowk,  
 
Nagpur- 440 008. 
             
E-mail : hitechboardninat@yahoo.com  ; Fax No: 0712-2764655      
 
Subject : Manufacturing Unit of Captive Resin at Plot No. 48/P1, Sarbhon Puni road, 
Ninat, Taluka Bardoli, District Surat, Gujarat by M/s Hi-Tech  Board Pvt. 
Ltd, Gujarat - Environmental Clearance reg. 
Ref.         :    Your letter no. nil dated 22nd August, 2014.  
 
Sir, 
This has reference to your letter dated 22nd August, 2014 alongwith project 
documents including Form I, Terms of References, Pre-feasibility Report, EIA/EMP Report 
alongwith Public Hearing Report  regarding above mentioned subject. 
 
2.0 
The Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change has examined the 
application. It is noted that the proposal is for Manufacturing Unit of Captive Resin at Plot 
No. 48/P1, Sarbhon Puni road, Ninat, Taluka Bardoli, District Surat, Gujarat by M/s Hi-Tech  
Board Pvt. Ltd. Total land area available  is 47450.0 m2. Land requirement for the proposed 
resin unit is 1512 m2 in the existing plot. Total cost of project is Rs. 29.30 Lakhs. Mindhola 
River and Purna River are flowing at a distance of 2.2 Km and 7.0 Km respectively. It is 
reported that no national parks & reserve forests are located within 10 Km distance. 
Following product will be manufactured:  
 
S.N. 
Product 
Production Capacity (MTPM) 
1 
Melamine Urea Formaldehyde Resin (MUF) 
1500 MTPM 
 
3.0 
Bag filter alongwith stack of adequate height should be installed to coal/white coal 
fired boiler& Thermic fluid heater to control particulate emissions. Total fresh water 
requirement from ground water source will be 15.5 m3/day. Industrial effluent will be treated 
in effluent treatment plant (ETP). Treated effluent shall be used for gardening after achieving 
water quality as per the standards.  No effluent will be discharged outside the plant 
premises. ETP sludge will be sent to treatment storage and disposal facility for hazardous 
waste (TSDF). Spent oil will be sent to authorized recyclers/re-processor.    
 
4.0 
Public hearing/public consultation meeting was conducted on 14th March, 2014. 
 
5.0 
Synthetic Organic Chemicals Industry located outside the notified industrial 
area/estate are listed at S.N. 5(f) under category ‘A’ and appraised at Central level. 
 
6.0 
The proposal was considered by the Expert Appraisal Committee (Industry) in its 
meetings held during 30th September, 2013-1st October, 2013 and 29th-30th October, 2014 
respectively. Project Proponent and the EIA Consultant namely M/s Enkay Enviro Services 
Pvt. Ltd. have presented EIA / EMP report as per the TOR.  EAC has found the EIA / EMP 
Report and additional information to be adequate and in full consonance with the presented 
TORs. The Committee recommended the proposal for environmental clearance. 
 
7.0 
Based on the information submitted by the project proponent, the Ministry of 
Environment, Forests and Climate Change hereby accords environmental clearance to 
above project under the provisions of ElA Notification dated 14th September 2006, subject to 
the compliance of the following Specific and General Conditions: 
 
A. 
SPECIFIC CONDITIONS: 
i) 
National Emission Standards for Organic Chemicals Manufacturing Industry issued 
by the Ministry vide G.S.R. 608(E) dated 21st July, 2010 and amended time to time 
shall be followed by the unit. 
ii) 
Bag filter along with stack of adequate height should be installed to coal/white coal 
fired boiler& Thermic fluid heater to control particulate emissions.  
iii) 
In plant control measures for checking fugitive emissions from all the vulnerable 
sources shall be provided. Adequate dust suppression systems with water spray 
shall be provided for storage yard, junction houses. Raw materials loading and 
unloading area shall be covered and also provided with water spraying system. 
Fugitive emissions in the work zone environment, product, raw materials storage 
area etc. shall be regularly monitored and records maintained. Wet scrubber shall be 
provided to control process emissions. The emissions shall conform to the limits 
stipulated by the GPCB.  
iv) 
The gaseous emissions from DG set shall be dispersed through adequate stack 
height as per CPCB standards. Acoustic enclosure shall be provided to the DG sets 
to mitigate the noise pollution. 
v) 
The company shall upload the status of compliance of the stipulated environmental 
clearance conditions, including results of monitored data on its website and shall 
update the same periodically. It shall simultaneously be sent to the Regional office of 
MOEF, the respective Zonal office of CPCB and the Gujarat Pollution Control Board. 
The levels of  PM10, PM2.5, SO2 , NOx, CO and VOCs in ambient air shall be 
monitored and displayed at a convenient location near the main gate of the company 
and at important public places. 
vi) 
Total fresh water requirement from ground water source should not exceed 15.5 
m3/day and prior permission should be obtained from the CGWA/SGWA. 
vii) 
Industrial effluent will be treated in ETP. Treated effluent shall be used for gardening 
after achieving water quality as per the standards. Water quality of treated effluent 
shall meet the norms prescribed by CPCB/SPCB. Water quality of treated effluent 
shall meet the norms prescribed by CPCB/SPCB. Domestic wastewater shall be 
disposed through septic tank and soak pit. 
viii) No effluent from the plant shall be discharged outside the factory premises and ‘Zero’ 
effluent discharge concept shall be followed. 
ix) 
Process effluent/any wastewater shall not be allowed to mix with storm water. Storm 
water drain shall be passed through guard pond. 
x) 
The company shall obtain Authorization for collection, storage and disposal of 
hazardous waste under the Hazardous Waste (Management, Handling and Trans-
Boundary Movement) Rules, 2008 and amended as on date for management of 
Hazardous wastes and prior permission from GPCB shall be obtained for disposal of 
solid / hazardous waste in the TSDF. Measures shall be taken for firefighting facilities 
in case of emergency. Disposal of wastes will be as per HW Rules. 
xi) 
The Company shall strictly comply with the rules and guidelines under Manufacture, 
Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemicals (MSIHC) Rules, 1989 as amended time 
to time. All Transportation of Hazardous Chemicals shall be as per the Motor Vehicle 
Act (MVA), 1989. 
xii) 
All the commitments made to the public during the Public Hearing/Public 
Consultation meeting held on 14th March, 2014  should be satisfactorily implemented 
and a separate budget for implementing the same should be allocated and 
information submitted to the Ministry’s Regional Office at Bhopal. 
xiii) 
At least 2.5 % of the total cost of the project should be earmarked towards the 
corporate social responsibility and item-wise details along with time bound action 
plan should be prepared and submitted to the Ministry’s Regional Office at Bhopal. 
Implementation of such program should be ensured accordingly in a time bound 
manner. 
xiv) The unit shall make the arrangement for protection of possible fire hazards during 
manufacturing process in material handling. Fire fighting system shall be as per 
norms. Risk Assessment in view that workers’ quarters are within premises. 
Formaldehyde Storage Leakage Prevention Plan shall be submitted to Regional 
Office within 3 months from the issue of letter.  
xv) 
Occupational health surveillance of the workers should be done on a regular basis 
and records maintained as per the Factories Act. 
xvi) As proposed, green belt over 33 % of the total project area should be developed 
within plant premises with at least 10 meter wide green belt on all sides along the 
periphery of the project area, in downward direction, and along road sides etc. 
Selection of plant species shall be as per the CPCB guidelines in consultation with 
the DFO.  
xvii) Provision shall be made for the housing for the construction labour within the site with 
all necessary infrastructure and facilities such as fuel for cooking, mobile toilets, 
mobile sewage treatment plant, safe drinking water, medical health care, crèche etc. 
The housing may be in the form of temporary structure to be removed after the 
completion of the project. All the construction wastes shall be managed so that there 
is no impact on the surrounding environment. 
B. 
GENERAL CONDITIONS: 
i. 
The project authorities shall strictly adhere to the stipulations made by the Gujarat 
Pollution Control Board. 
ii. 
No further expansion or modifications in the plant shall be carried out without prior 
approval of the Ministry of Environment and Forests. In case of deviations or 
alterations in the project proposal from those submitted to this Ministry for clearance, 
a fresh reference shall be made to the Ministry to assess the adequacy of conditions 
imposed and to add additional environmental protection measures required, if any. 
iii. 
Ambient air quality data should be collected as per NAAQES standards notified by 
the Ministry on 16th November, 2009. 
iv. 
The locations of ambient air quality monitoring stations shall be decided in 
consultation with the State Pollution Control Board (SPCB) and it shall be ensured 
that at least one stations is installed in the upwind and downwind direction as well as 
where maximum ground level concentrations are anticipated. 
v. 
The overall noise levels in and around the plant area shall be kept well within the 
standards by providing noise control measures including acoustic hoods, silencers, 
enclosures etc. on all sources of noise generation. The ambient noise levels shall 
conform to the standards prescribed under Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 
Rules, 1989 viz. 75 dBA (day time) and 70 dBA (night time). 
vi. 
The Company shall harvest rainwater from the roof tops of the buildings and storm 
water drains to recharge the ground water and use the same water for the process 
activities of the project to conserve fresh water. 
vii. 
Training shall be imparted to all employees on safety and health aspects of 
chemicals handling. Pre-employment and routine periodical medical examinations for 
all employees shall be undertaken on regular basis. Training to all employees on 
handling of chemicals shall be imparted. 
viii. Usage of Personnel Protection Equipments (PPEs) by all employees/ workers shall 
be ensured. 
ix. 
The company shall also comply with all the environmental protection measures and 
safeguards proposed in the documents submitted to the Ministry. All the 
recommendations made in the EIA/EMP in respect of environmental management, 
risk mitigation measures and public hearing relating to the project shall be 
implemented. 
x. 
The company shall undertake all relevant measures for improving the socio--
economic conditions of the surrounding area. CSR activities shall be undertaken by 
involving local villages and administration. 
xi. 
The company shall undertake eco-developmental measures including community 
welfare measures in the project area for the overall improvement of the environment. 
xii. 
A separate Environmental Management Cell equipped with full fledged laboratory 
facilities shall be set up to carry out the Environmental Management and Monitoring 
functions. 
xiii. The company shall earmark sufficient funds toward capital cost and recurring 
cost/annum to implement the conditions stipulated by the Ministry of Environment 
and Forests as well as the State Government along with the implementation 
schedule for all the conditions stipulated herein. The funds so earmarked for 
environment management/ pollution control measures shall not be diverted for any 
other purpose. 
xiv. A copy of the clearance letter shall be sent by the project proponent to concerned 
Panchayat, ZilaParisad/Municipal Corporation, Urban local Body and the local NGO, 
if any, from who suggestions/ representations, if any, were received while processing 
the proposal.   
xv. 
The project proponent shall also submit six monthly reports on the status of 
compliance of the stipulated Environmental Clearance conditions including results of 
monitored data (both in hard copies as well as by e-mail) to the respective Regional 
Office of MoEF, the respective Zonal Office of CPCB and the Gujarat Pollution 
Control Board. A copy of Environmental Clearance and six monthly compliance 
status report shall be posted on the website of the company.   
xvi. The environmental statement for each financial year ending 31st March in Form-V as 
is mandated shall be submitted to the concerned State Pollution Control Board as 
prescribed under the Environment (Protection) Rules, 1986, as amended 
subsequently, shall also be put on the website of the company along with the status 
of compliance of environmental clearance conditions and shall also be sent to the 
respective Regional Offices of MoEF by e-mail. 
xvii. The project proponent shall inform the public that the project has been accorded 
environmental clearance by the Ministry and copies of the clearance letter are 
available with the SPCB/Committee and may also be seen at Website of the Ministry 
at http://envfor.nic.in. This shall be advertised within seven days from the date of 
issue of the clearance letter, at least in two local newspapers that are widely 
circulated in the region of which one shall be in the vernacular language of the 
locality concerned and a copy of the same shall be forwarded to the concerned 
Regional Office of the Ministry. 
xviii. The project authorities shall inform the Regional Office as well as the Ministry, the 
date of financial closure and final approval of the project by the concerned authorities 
and the date of start of the project. 
8.0 
The Ministry may revoke or suspend the clearance, if implementation of any of the 
above conditions is not satisfactory. 
 
9.0 
The Ministry reserves the right to stipulate additional conditions, if found necessary. 
The company in a time bound manner will implement these conditions. 
 
10.0 
The above conditions will be enforced, inter-alia under the provisions of the Water 
(Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, Air (Prevention &. Control of Water Pollution) 
Act, 1981, the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, Hazardous Waste (Management, 
Handling and Trans-boundary Movement) Rules, 2008 and the Public Liability Insurance Act, 
1991 alongwith their amendments and rules.     
 
11.0 
  Environmental Clearance is issued for manufacturing Unit of Captive Resin at Plot 
No. 48/P1, Sarbhon Puni road, Ninat, Taluka Bardoli, District Surat, Gujarat to M/s Hi-Tech  
Board Pvt. Ltd, Gujarat                                                                                                           
 
 
 (Lalit Bokolia)  
 
Additional Director  
 
 
 
Copy to:- 
 
1. The Principal Secretary, Forests & Environment Department, Government of Gujarat, 
Sachivalaya, 8th Floor, Gandhi Nagar - 382 010, Gujarat. 
2. The Chief Conservator of Forests (Western Zone), Ministry of Environment & Forests, 
Regional Office, E-5, Arera Colony, Link Road -3, Bhopal -462 016, M.P. 
3. The Chairman, Central Pollution Control Board Parivesh Bhavan, CBD-cum-Office Complex, 
East Arjun Nagar, New Delhi - 110 032. 
4. The Chairman, Gujarat State Pollution Control Board, Paryavaran Bhawan, Sector 10 A, 
Gandhi Nagar-382 043, Gujarat. 
5. Monitoring Cell, Ministry of Environment and Forests, Paryavaran Bhavan, CGO Complex, 
New Delhi. 
6. Joint Secretary, IA II(I), Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, Indira 
Paryavaran Bhavan, , New Delhi. 
7. Guard File/Monitoring File/Record File. 
 
 (Lalit Bokolia)  
 
Additional Director  
 
 
